In this section, I'd like to talk about why
robots are useful. Why do we need robots?
The first example I am going to give is what's
called robotic surgery but that is a bit of
a misnomer. It's actually robot-enabled surgery.
And highly trained human surgeons are the
key part of the system. The robot part of
the system is shown over here and there are a
number of tools which are inside the body
of the patient. There are tools which carry
very small cameras and the information from
those cameras is presented to the surgeon
in a stereoscopic or 3D display. The surgeon
looks at this 3D imagery and adjusts what
we could consider as some small joysticks.
Those small joysticks control the motion of
tools which are also inside the patient's
body.
So the surgeon is doing all the skilled work.
He's using his eyes to interpret the 3D imagery.
He's using everything he knows about medicine
in order to control the tools inside the human
body to do the job that needs to be done.
The key innovation here is the surgeon is
virtually inside the human body. In the old
days, we needed to make very large openings
in the human body so that the surgeon could
get his very large hands in there to do the
work that needed to be done.
With this robot surgery technology, we are
able to make a number of very very small incisions
in the body of the patient into which we insert
these very small tools and cameras so the
outcomes for the patient are a whole lot better.
So robotic surgery is really a misnomer. It's
like the teleoperation system that we looked
at earlier on which was used to perform manipulation
of radioactive material. It's a very similar
technology being used here to virtually place
a surgeon inside the body of a patient.
We can also use robot technology to make us
stronger. This is a technology called an exoskeleton.
It's a wearable robot. We strap ourselves
into it. It straps onto our ankles, onto our
knees, onto our thighs and onto our trunk.
It monitors how we move. And it's made of
very strong materials and it's got very strong
motors. So as we move, it moves with us and
its strength augments our own strength.
Here is a video of an exoskeleton system at
work. This is some video that I took at a
robot exhibition recently. We can see the
gentleman wearing the exoskeleton is able
to handle this large weight quite effortlessly.
There we go. So this is a way that limitations
of human strength can be augmented by robot
technology. The intelligence in performing
the motion or performing the action comes
from the human being but the raw strength,
the brute strength comes from the robot that
he is wearing.
Another really important role for robots today
is managing assets, as a society we have a massive
investment in assets in terms of power lines,
water pipe lines, gas pipe lines and sewer
systems. And in order to maintain the health
of those assets, they need to be periodically
inspected and that's very labor-intensive. And some of these inspection jobs are fairly unpleasant.
Imagine if it was your job to inspect sewer
systems. It's dark, it's unpleasant, and actually
a little dangerous. So people have been building
robots that can be placed in the pipe lines
to perform the inspection without sending
human beings down there. So robotic researchers
have been developing robot systems for performing
this kind of inspection work. And here we
see an example of a pipe inspection robot.
It's got wheels to propel it through the pipe,
it's got lights and cameras.
A massive amount of money is spent each year
on inspecting power lines and there's a couple
of approaches to doing this. One is to fly
a robot along the power line or else to build
a robot that can crawl along the power lines.
Flying helicopters near power lines is a dangerous
business. And each year, a number of helicopter
crashes are caused by the helicopter coming
into too close proximity with the wires that
it is inspecting. So this is exactly the sort
of job, a dangerous job that a robot should
do.
Perhaps our most important asset is the planet
on which we live and researchers are developing
all manner of robots to inspect and monitor
the health of our planet. A few of them are
seen here. They are flying robots that could
be flown into dangerous weather systems such
as hurricanes or cyclones, robots that can
explore the inside of volcanic craters, blimp-based
robots for monitoring the health of the Amazon
rain forest, underwater exploration robots
and Antarctic exploration robots, and even robotic
boats for monitoring the quality of water
in the storages that provide drinking water
for cities.
It's a dangerous business sending humans beneath
the surface of our oceans. Human divers are
limited in the depths that they can dive to.
They also require a support vessel on the
surface from which they dive and for which
they return. Because of this limitation on
humans under the water, there's been an enormous
amount of research over recent decades in
building underwater robot systems. These are
completely autonomous. They've got a number
of sensors on board and we can send them off
to do missions like photographic survey of
wrecks, exploring for minerals and examining
the health of assets such as coral reefs.
Another place that humans cannot go is to
other planets. And here is a collection of
robots that have been sent to Mars. Here in
the front we have the small robots. Sojourner,
which was sent in 1997. Behind that is a robot
which is a copy of Spirit and Opportunity
which were sent to Mars in 2003. And over
here, we have this giant robot, Curiosity,
which was sent to Mars in 2012. Here is an
example of some pictures of Mars taken from
the Curiosity rover. And again, here we can
see the size of the Curiosity rover with respect
to a human engineer.
The important message here is that there are
environments that we want to go to learn information
about the health or the state of the environment.
The deep oceans, rain forest, volcanoes or
other planets. But it's currently either too
expensive or it's too dangerous to send human
beings to those places. So we send robots
there instead and they serve as our proxies
or our agents and we use sensory information
from those robots to learn about that environment
rather than having to send human beings carrying
instruments to those places.